As we step through our code in the debugger you see an identifier named this in the debugger pane.
This is a reserved keyword that contains the address of the current object.
So it's a pointer to the object that's currently being used by the class member methods.
The this keyword can only be used within the scope of the class in many other object oriented programming
languages.
We use the word self instead of this but in C++ we use the keyword this all member access is done via
this pointer.
However C++ allows you to use member names directly and behind the scenes it's actually using this pointer.
This can be used by the programmer and in many cases we must use it.
We can use it to explicitly access data members and methods.
We can also use it to determine if two objects are the same.
We use this in the next section when we overload the assignment operator to determine if we're assigning
to ourselves.
Of course since this points to the current object if you dereference it you'll follow the pointer and
work with the current object.
Here's an example of one way to write a set balance method for an Account class.
Notice that the name of the parameter is BHL and the code in the body of the method is balanced equals
BHL which assigns the value of the parameter be able to the class data member balance.
Well you don't have to write this aero balance but that's exactly what the compiler is doing for us
behind the scenes.
Now suppose that the name of the parameter was balance.
Now in the method body the assignment statement balance equals balance would use the parameter balance
for both of those identifiers instead of the data member balance.
That's because with scope rules.
Now this statement would not accomplish what we wanted to do.
So in order to refer to the data member balance we need to explicitly use this arrow ballots.
Finally suppose we have a compare balance method in the account class that compares the balance of one
object with another.
We could check to see if we're comparing the same objects by comparing this and the address of other.
If they're the same then we're dealing with the same object.
In this example it wouldn't make much difference in our code since we're simply comparing balances.
But if our compare logic is involved or computationally expensive then a quick check to see if the objects
are the same could help performance.
We'll use the this pointer again in the operator overloading section of the course.